If you haven't already done so,
please watch part one from our previous line-up
before you see this part,
because it's a continuation of the conversation.
In this interview, Burton talks about some of the elements
of health that have to be addressed
to both prevent and reverse cancer.
We left off with talking about the fact that
up to 14% of Alzheimer's is directly related
to mad cow syndrome.
This is not being reported.
It's not being reported because the pharmaceutical indus--
Because of the purple pill that's being sold on television
and in newspapers, they don't want to ruffle the feathers
of the agencies that handle the
pharmaceutical industrial complex.
They'll be punished.
So it keeps going back to this complex.
It keeps going back to the fact that,
what's his name, the guy from Arizona, McCaren?
McCain?
McCain, McCain-Feingold Act.
The McCain-Feingold Act is not functioning.
We're being sold down the river by the politicians.
This is being allowed to happen.
We no longer have oversight,
and the government's rampant.
We have to stop the financial supplementation
to Congress, Senate, by lobbyists.
We have more lobbyists than we have Congressmen,
and that's what it amounts to, we're being--
And that's all really spiked
in the last few years, obviously.
We could do another hour just on that.
Okay, so we can see where the problem is.
Yeah, I testified before Congress
showing how Sloan Kettering allowed these people,
they did a dastardly thing,
and it went in one ear and out the other.
They were kind, I gave them my books,
they shook my hand, they thanked me,
nothing ever happened.
Right, and this is a story I've heard
over and over.
Because of
Right.
the lobbyists.
So if we try to go with the system,
if we watch television, if we follow the ads,
if we go buy every little purple, green, and blue pill,
basically we're in trouble.
Our bodies are already toxic.
The chances are one in two we're going to
come down with cancer,
heart disease is right up on its tail,
and number one, we're dying at the hands
of our medical care providers.
So let's now go the other direction entirely
and take full responsibility,
and say we're unplugging from that system.
First of all, most people are terrified to unplug.
For example, I pay $450 a month for an HMO's healthcare
that I never use, because if I really want to be helped
I usually go to an alternative-care provider
that's not covered for, that's not covered.
I keep it for what?
Because being driven by fear like most people.
"Oh, what if something catastrophic happens.
"What if the Big C came into my life, for example."
They don't cover the things I would use anyway.
How do we begin to unplug from this,
and how do we begin to take care of ourselves?
We must, on a state by state level,
demand what they have in the state of Washington
where alternative medicine is covered
equal to every other medicine.
That's what's necessary.
We were just talking about this.
Is Washington the only state that offers this?
To my knowledge I think they're the only state
at the moment that demands that insurance companies,
and we went through the Supreme Court
of the state of Washington,
demands that the insurance companies
cover holistic medicine equally.
So we need to start lobbying on a,
not just a regional, but a state level,
to say that, okay.
Absolutely.
So we have to take political action
to make sure that--
And also there's no reason why we can't do it
on a national level for Medicare.
True.
I'm on Medicare, I'm 79 years old.
And looking fabulous.
I do a lot.
Yes, I hear you do.
I do a lot of prevention medicine.
That doesn't mean I didn't have cancer,
I've had cancer twice.
What kind did you--
So I know what I'm talking about.
I had kidney failure.
As you age, your organs age, and so you must cleanse them,
detoxify, detoxify, detoxify.
There's a wonderful doctor by the name of Sherry Rogers
who did a book Detoxify or Die.
I think she lives in the Sacramento,
in the Sarasota area of Florida.
You might want to contact her, she's marvelous.
Okay, Detoxify or Die.
Sherry Rogers, Detoxify or Die is her book.
So, along that line,
we can take political action,
try to get our states, our states,
our federal government to acknowledge
and begin picking up the costs
for some of these alternative therapies.
In the meanwhile, we're on our own.
So what can we do in a preventative sense
to make sure that we put ourselves
in the best possible position for a healthy
and energetic life?
The number one is diet and nutrition.
You need some exercise, you gotta move around a bit.
You must drink pure water, shower with pure water.
Women should definitely have thermograms
rather than radiation.
Mammograms.
Radiation causes cancer.
Organic food, vegetables,
and range roamed beef and chicken if you're doing it.
Be careful that you don't have toxic fish.
And sleep, rest.
What about some of the culprits,
like coffee, sugar, white flour?
I just finished a film on depression,
and depression is epidemic in this country.
43 million people are on drugs
for depression, anxiety, and panic disorder.
That's a quarter of our population.
Addiction is rampant.
Addiction, depression,
and attention deficit are all similar.
It's because the diet that we have
is devoid of good nutrition.
When they use pesticides on the crops in farming,
those pesticides go in the ground
and kill the organic matter that separates the minerals
and the nutrition from the soil.
So they use pesticides and herbicides.
Women who drink two to three glasses of wine a week
have 200 and 300% more cancer of the breast.
A lot of chemicals used on grapes.
Remember Cesar Chavez?
He says, "You're killing my pickers with the stuff."
Oh, yeah,
You don't think
I mean multiple
they scrubbed those
layers.
grapes, do you?
No.
That's why you need organic wine as well.
Very true, I did a story on that one time,
and was absolutely shocked to find out
the number of applications per crop.
Very true.
Okay, so we have that.
Where were we?
Oh, I was asking you about coffee, and sugar,
and white flour, and--
Well, coffee, I drink, I like coffee.
And although right now I'm on a detoxification program,
I'm off it, because coffee, caffeine does effect,
and coffee effects homeopathy, the sunnel energy.
So I'm off, I'm drinking herbal tea at the moment.
But when I drink coffee, it's organic,
because these pesticides go into the prostate,
they go into the breast, they go all over the body
and are causing all kinds of problems.
I drink decaffeinated Swiss water system.
I use a paper filter of a brown paper
rather than the bleached,
and you have less toxins that way.
Is it right?
It's better than--
Better than doing it the other way.
Than conventional coffee.
I happen to love Peet's.
Yeah, Peet's is great coffee.
The only thing I wonder about, and I love coffee too,
and I drink similarly to you,
except mostly caffeinated organic coffee when I do,
but my understanding is that it takes quite a long time
to clear from the liver.
It seems like this might be an issue when it comes to
the whole subject of detoxifying.
No question.
The liver is like the spoke of the wheel of the body,
and it has to really be cleaned.
It's amazing the multi-functions of the liver.
You know, that's one of the problems with medicine,
they really don't know how the body works.
They don't teach it in medical school.
That's true.
So that's where the holistic physician has to learn that.
So what about the subject of sugar?
Sugar is poison.
Sugar is death.
The white death.
There was a book called White Death once upon a time.
Yep.
There's artificial's like Stevia.
There's all grades of Stevia like in everything else,
but Stevia seems to be good.
The aspartame is a deadly excitotoxin
that is a cause of many problems, including cancer.
It's in Equal, and aspartame is in
whatever the other sugar substitutes are.
Diet drinks, diet colas.
It's very serious.
What about Splenda?
I don't think it's so good, I'm not too sure about that.
Yeah, and then, as you say, you have Stevia.
What about now going to the more
organic forms of sweeteners,
what about honey and agave nectar,
organic agave nectar?
That's pretty good stuff.
Yeah, because my understanding of agave nectar,
which is what we use, it's even suitable for diabetics.
The metabolism in honey is better,
particularly local honey, I do recommend.
I've learned to do things without it.
Although I like my cookies.
Right, okay. (laughing)
And my Haagen-Dazs.
So if you're going to do it,
then we're going to go with,
if you need sweeteners in your life
we're going to go with something like Stevia,
or organic agave, or local honey.
Yeah, but you brought up the subject of the liver,
which means one has to detoxify.
Gallbladders, must detoxify liver,
must detoxify entire body, including heavy metals.
Detoxification saunas,
a far infrared sauna is very important.
Oh, I've heard about this.
Can you talk a little bit about that?
The far infrared sauna, you don't need a lot of heat,
and it works like the sun, it has the same kind of warmth,
and resonance of the sun, and the rays of the sun.
So far infrared spectrum is very, very healthy,
and it helps you dump more toxins.
They've taken the perspiration from patients
in ordinary saunas, and in far infrared saunas,
and I think there's a 15% higher rate
of heavy metals, and poisons, and toxins coming out.
So it's very, very important to detoxify.
Now we can do this through heat,
we can do this through sweat in our own exercise, right?
Yes, but the far infrared is infinitely
higher rates of dumping.
And there's key leading aspects.
EDTA baths are very good.
What's that mean?
EDTA is a product that they use
for pulling out heavy metals from the body,
and other poisons and toxins.
You can do it intravenously, you can do it orally,
and you can also take baths in it
with apple cider vinegar, or Epsom salts.
What about the
Or baking soda.
subject of ultraviolet therapy
where a small amount of the blood is removed,
exposed to ultraviolet, what can you tell us
about that as well?
Ultraviolet
is excellent.
Usually what the doctors do in holistic medicine,
they remove the blood, and then they ozonate it.
They just take a small amount, say 20 cc's,
and then they put it through an ultraviolet.
The object here is to kill all the pathogens in the blood.
And then they reinsert that blood into the body.
When they do, it notifies the immune system
that these dead critters are the ones to go after.
Oh, interesting.
It signals the body to clean itself out,
so you have to have enough food, and nutrition,
in order to do that.
That's why eating is so important.
It is very, very important to have a huge,
delicious, nutritious breakfast.
So what would that look like in real life?
Breakfast as a king, lunch as a prince,
and supper as a pauper.
As a pauper.
So I eat my main meal at lunch,
but breakfast, eggs are very healthy, they're much maligned.
This business of whites of eggs and no yolks and so forth
is total nonsense.
The whole story of cholesterol is total nonsense.
Can you talk about that for a moment?
We have chickens, and have the most splendid,
organic eggs on the planet.
Yeah, they're great.
And eat lots of them.
Yeah, very healthy.
It's wonderful.
The whole cholesterol story is wrong.
It is the low density lipid and the high density lipids
that have to be watched,
because you don't want high low-densities.
The triglycerides, these are the suckers that kill.
The...
That create the plaque.
That create plaque, and infections in the blood
are very, very important.
Little protein A, and sticky proteins, and so forth.
Cholesterol is necessary in your body
for the maintenance of good, healthy body.
So the story of high cholesterol is total nonsense,
particularly there's no correlation between older people
and cholesterol and heart disease.
But the LDL's are to be watched.
So eating cholesterol foods is not the way to go.
We manufacture cholesterol in our body,
multiple times more than we consume.
And in fact I thought that
the good, organic eggs actually had a beneficial effect
on positive cholesterol,
Highly beneficial.
cholesterol levels.
They're much maligned.
Right.
Great nutrition, inexpensive.
Preserves, handles well.
As long as you do organic again?
Yeah, and of course, so,
I like a good breakfast, cereal,
fiber is extremely important.
One of the things that people don't discuss,
and they must discuss, is the bowel movements.
You know, it's a forbidden subject.
If you don't have two to three bowel movements a day
you're constipated.
Right.
Very important.
And you can, it's easy.
You go to a health food store,
and you get some, some of the products are too harsh.
What are some that are natural
that are not harsh on the body, and don't create--
There are programs, there are programs you can take.
Cascara can be harsh.
There's a whole series of them, it's important.
Another aspect of having two to three bowel movements a day
is the acid alkaline of the body.
Cancer patients heal twice as fast
when they're in the optimum pH.
Right.
To acid, cancer, and other diseases.
And we're a chronically acidic culture,
the western world.
Because of
our diet.
Sugars, white flour, so forth and so on.
So balancing out the,
let's go on to that a minute more,
the alkalinity factors are really natural produce.
Yeah, and it's very difficult to do with diet alone.
So the use of Rubidium and Cesium,
these are minerals that can help balance out
the acid alkaline of the body.
But a cancer patient, I've been told by physicians,
that a cancer patient will heal twice as fast
if they have optimum pH and not too acid.
Makes perfect sense.
But they pay no attention to it.
Most holistic physicians don't pay attention to it.
Well that's really why a lot of the people
that are using natural cures for cancer say,
first of all, no sugar, no white flour, no coffee or tea,
no caffeinated beverages, lots of leafy greens,
loads of greens, green seems to be the color.
Vegetables.
Campbell just did a book on the China study, very important,
that a plant-based diet is much healthier.
That's the bottom line.
But remember now, certain people cannot be vegetarians.
Right.
If you're Scandinavian, and your family's been eating
for centuries reindeer, you may not be able to,
you can't survive.
So different strokes for different folks.
If you're Chinese, it very well could be.
From India, you very well could be a vegetarian.
But some people do need protein,
and sometimes the protein
of beans and rice aren't sufficient.
Or you don't get metabol volume.
They need the amino acids
from meat.
Methylate.
Wow, exactly.
The shortage of amino acids are one of the reasons
we have so much attention deficit,
and depression, and anxiety.
Amino acids.
There's four different aspects of depression,
and there's four different, you know,
serotonin, caveolins, and GABA.
So amino acid replacement is really essential
in terms of depression.
You must eat it.
And sometimes you can't eat enough,
so you have to take supplementation.
GABA, and taurine, and all these precursors,
these amino acid building blocks of protein
that will produce the serotonin.
That's why people are on Zoloft,
a serotonin uptake inhibitors.
They just keep to whatever serotonin
you have in your body.
But by supplementing you can get off these drugs.
These drugs have horrible side effects, many of them.
And as you said, a quarter of the population,
as many as a quarter of the population may be on them,
including children.
Those are the stats, the government statistics.
43 million are on these drugs.
Drug companies don't want you to know this, do they?
No, and in fact,
you're associated with Kevin Trudeau.
Yes.
You're friends.
And he wrote the book
Natural Cures They Don't Want You to Know About.
It sounds like the two of you
have been searching along the same path
for quite a while.
Absolutely, Kevin is right on the money.
Well, his book certainly seems to be
on the money to me as I've read it.
He goes into great lengths to explain
how the pharmaceutical industry,
in conjunction with our--
FDA and the commercial,
what's the other one, the FDA, there's another,
truth in advertising.
They let the pharmaceutical companies off the hook
and they go after anybody who produces
a natural, inexpensive product.
Hydrogen sulfide is a good example.
Anything in wrapping it up
that you would like to say?
We could go on with each disease forever,
but I'm gonna tell them to buy your book.
The Federal Communication, FTC, the FTC--
FCC, Federal Communications Commission, right.
That's the communication, trade commission.
Oh trade commission.
FTC.
Federal Trade Commission, gotcha.
They work as mafia with the FDA together
to stamp out anything that works that is inexpensive,
and of course you have phonys around, so buyer beware.
Right.
But nobody's more phony than the drug industry.
So anything else you'd like to say
in wrapping it up?
Then we can let people start searching some,
Googling some of these names you've given us today.
The mind-body we haven't covered,
and it's very, very important.
Yes, yes, you're right.
You have to have a good relationship,
you have to have a good relationship in your love life.
You have to like what you do, and if you don't,
you have to modify it, because it'll come and whack you.
It affects your organs, and your systems,
and your entire being.
The mind-body plays an enormous role.
I couldn't agree more.
And there's no way of beating it
because it produces stress.
Stress brings on cortisol, and cortisol brings on
the road to death, a faster death.
Heart disease, and so forth, so the emotions.
When people have shocks, and stress,
they end up with multiple sclerosis,
they end up with heart disease,
they end up with liver failure, kidney failure.
One thing leads to the other,
so the mind-body plays an enormous role.
But remember, as a lot of people say,
everything starts in the mind.
No, in some cases, yes, in some cases,
it's 90% of the problem.
In some cases it's only 10% of the problem.
But once you're given the diagnosis of cancer,
you've got stress, there's the mind-body,
and it has to be addressed.
Right.
And this is something that you can,
I remember when my son was about 14 years old
I taught him about decision making,
and told him your stomach will never lie to you. (laughing)
It will always give you the reaction you need
to find out what is the correct course of action.
Is that called the gut feeling?
The gut feeling, and it is truly,
I mean it is a chemical reaction that occurs simultaneously
in the brain and the gut, and the mind can rationalize,
but it seems like the gut doesn't.
If we really follow our gut, if it's gnawing,
and dark in there, it's probably not going to serve us.
There are simple ways, aren't there?
If you simplify your life it's a hell of a lot better.
Another of our interviews you might enjoy,
if you like what Burton is saying,
is Doctor Lorraine Day.
Lorraine reversed her own end-stage cancer
and has helped thousands of others do the same
by observing some fundamental health, diet,
and lifestyle changes.
This is a must-see.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(upbeat music)